--- 
layout: post 
title: A semi-automatic categorization of GitHub projects 
--- 

After few months from launch, [gitwatcher.com](http://gitwatcher.com/) is
slowly but constantly adding new users to the system and today, we reach the
nice number of 73 active users.


Few but good, just like books and friends should be, right ? What I mean, is
that all of us are skilled programmers already using [GitHub
](https://github.com/)for fun and profit and now, by tagging, we are also
adding a collective value too.

Tagging the repositories we are watching on GitHub in the pursue of being able
to find it again the next time we need it, has at first the personal value of
keeping our things organized and easily findable. As secondary effect, it
enables cooperative semi-automatic categorization  based on
“[folksonomy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folksonomy)”.

What we are trying to get here, is a brand new “[trends
page](http://gitwatcher.com/trends)“, where the best GitHub projects are
listed by category.


How can we do it ? Despite the quite extensive literature in  “Automatic
Categorization Systems” field,  gitwatcher.com wants to go easy and
cooperative.


It will start from a really basic kind of categorization system looking each
user’s watchlist for a specific set of tags, say “ruby”, “web” and “framework”
for example, then assign the relative repository to the category “Ruby Web
Frameworks”.


Categories are currently generated by admins at gitwatcher.com, who give them
a name and a minimum set of tags to be included in, but the future is open for
experimenting with better, maybe more social and collaborative solutions.


If you have any idea on how that should be done, please let me know. Add your
suggestion by commenting this article and contributing to the development of
the GitWatcher free platform.


